how are you guys doing and welcome to
another episode of the MH podcast a
podcast which is extremely irregular but
also very content Rich we have with us a
heavy way of the public speaking World
in Pakistan he's a practicing
psychologist if you are Pakistan you
likely to know who he is we're talking
about sah how how are you doing it's
good to see
you is an Islamic intellectual and
academic he does have a psychology
background and he's engaged with the
scriptural work as well and the academic
studies in Islamic Studies uh the first
thing I want to ask you because you're
based in Pakistan and Pakistan is by
number in terms of population is the
second most populated Muslim country in
the world very important geopolitical
country um what is the feeling um in
Pakistan Vis A the Palestine question in
terms of the people that you've
interacted with in terms of the public
opinion
public opinion has been unanimously Pro
yes action not just Palestine Next Step
there you got to take an action the
people are just literally calling out
that you know if you can't go send us
I'm talking about the Army you know
they're just like you know if you're not
going to go yourself that you know
they're voluntarily you women and men
together old people boys and girls well
for youth is very very energetic about
you know something has to be done and
that's very my concern that if you're
not going to do something now this
energy is going to die down I'm going to
get immune to not doing anything and
this is why I'm actually touring the
world literally just to so make sure
that you know this sort of a um a
problem we don't get immune to these
sort of problem of not getting to do
something about and still getting used
to the fact that you know believing
ourselves that you know we did something
we raise the voice it's not going to
solve anything in Palestine raising a
voice is not the solution actually doing
something about it politically
and uh by the end of the day it's a game
of attrition and you have enough
millions of Muslims coming together
creating more of a farm that can
actually have the potential to literally
blow that's what's going to strike fear
in the in the people who are going to
actually make some decisions absolutely
and Pakistan is one of those countries
that if any does happen from there it's
going to have a seismic effect across
the whole region um and you're saying
that that from your interactions with
people people are affected
psychologically in Pakistan they really
are it's PR practical depression really
as literal as it guess now people are
not just it's not lip service going on
as a domestic individual people are
crying
praying uh and you know just I cuz I I
move around in universities and you know
different public sessions people are
just you know asking for my account
number like trying to push money and
because because I say no you know we
have to actually know where to actually
tunnel where you know
real help has to go to H so it's not
just you know they're not just talking
about it they really want to do
something about it and when uh regular
men and women you know are so serious
about something that means you know it's
not just it's it's gone deep enough and
uh my intention is that local Pakistan
are not going to be able to push the
snowball it's not going to create much
of an effect that's why I'm going all
over the world and most of them are
Indian panis they listen to me so what I
am trying to do is to cover a 360 angle
so that we can put more pressure on the
pakistanis and do a very strong
political push from the government so
that even if they don't do anything
about it's not about shooting uh the gun
it's about showing the gun and we're not
showing the gun that's my problem you
know Cu uh Israel has to know that you
know we are caring MH and uh right now
he believes that we're not and I know
why any you know n ja would believe that
we're not caring because they know where
the bullets are and then they they have
the keys to the safe mhm and I I really
need to show any Benjamin or any future
Benjamin nany that it's not just that
fact that we carrying but we know how to
actually shoot and uh it's not the
government it's the people by the end of
the day if enough there's enough
pressure uh on any government let alone
a Pakistanian government then you know
America doesn't really count or England
doesn't really count and now I know you
know UK just hit German and uh of course
UK and America and it's a deco the they
do whatever it takes so that the
Palestine bomb does not detonate and I
believe that pakistanis can detonate the
Palestine bomb and you know and I'm
pretty sure uh that the Iran Pakistan
conflict is another way to dis release
the gas from that you know this whole
plutonium that is been
created you mentioned about like that
people are really affected by this H
would you say it's causing somewhat of a
spiritual awakening as
well so ironic that you said that cuz
I've been actually moving for Palestine
uh for the last five years now yeah
actually way more than that actually
when Mii MRA happened this is like six
seven years ago and and I was not famous
enough so that people were not you know
not get enough numbers and uh Pakistan
is in an amazing landscape where 20 year
olds and 30y olds are you know really
pumping religious content in their cell
phone and YouTube and this Palestine
thing as ironic as these words would
sound would not could not have come in a
better time for a youth to actually come
or or a boy or a girl to come into you
know cuz we needed a catalyst and this
sort of a thing where there's some
serious names doing really good job in
Udu uh who trying to wake up the the
people and bring sure you're one of them
really ironically know I actually uh
don't speak to the classical Pakistani
oh sure okay yeah I'm actually speaking
in you know four or five different
cities which of course speak English and
R at the same time because I actually
believe that you know what it's it's a
top down thing yeah if you can get the
the the intellectual Elite to listen to
me then you know I would have you know a
will have a trickle down effect on the
rest of the popul General man so do you
think that the yeah you I was going to
ask that do you think that basically the
if want to put it in a crass manner but
people from the feel like working
classes are more likely to copy on a
social perspective those this is the
problem this is why actually came to you
cuz most of the people we Allah didn't
design us to copy design to copy because
that was the survival of the child to
copy his father as soon as we develop
the prefrontal cortex we design not to
copy that's against our self-esteem to
copy or even our own father Yes we have
to have our own identity but people like
you or you know whoever has a global
presence your responsibility even my
everybody's responsibility said you
don't create your copies yes because if
everyone starts to think and they're
going to actually come up with some
solution which you and I will never even
you know fathom some boy in some
in Tunisia or you know Morocco or
Pakistan they're going to because some
of your words are going to act as a key
to unlock an algorithm which his life
has to offer to him I think it would be
probably safe to say that the our work
people like myself and yourself is not
telling people what to think we're
telling them how to think how think
yesly you know CU this is most of the
Muslims the last about 800 900 years
we've been under a curse and that's the
curse of uh jurisprudence
is an amazing thing and but it's for a
use it is not for General Life purpose M
it is absolutely not for hikma actually
that's the anti-ma means that you got to
have a precedented documented process
you got to follow that sure but most of
the Muslims especially the Sunni Muslims
they're trained as if f is the only
Islam and that's the only window through
which you're going to learn about
anything about Islam so I'm a sha by the
way I follow oh sure I thought You' be
Hani yeah you think yeah
yeah yeah but I was you know I was
adopted by the chaang in in Canada oh
really okay yeah so Ora they actually
didn't push a humble army they like you
know choose yeah so my son's name is sha
by the way my daughter's name is hijab
on the
way something which is my first daughter
the job yes my my my son is name sha wow
my teacher cuz you know I I you know but
coming back to the point it's ironic
that you know we've spoken so many times
and on the podcast I tell you that my
daughter's no but it's it's mad because
I was thinking if I had a daughter
called hijab should be called hijab
hijab I was thinking that would be some
kind of ridiculous name that's not a
word that's not a girl's name in no no
that's a girl name in Pakistan oh is it
it's not a name a common name my family
does not have a my name is not common
I'm the only T in Pakistan you know okay
just even though it's an UD word so when
a Muslim I'm com back I have way to
digress no it's good uh when a Muslim is
trained to think fake only yeah he's
going to start to find fake in the Quran
as
well I'll tell you I've always
identified you know in the Islamic um
world if you like in in Islamic
scholarship as three different
approaches three General approaches one
of them is I would call it in terms of
Juris Prudence one of them I would call
the approach if you like I would call
where they would someone would come and
say like for example this Hadith is
strong this Hadith is whatever
and whatever and this has its pros and
cons then there's the other approach
which is the maab approach where you
have like four mabs for the most part
someone just follows the maab and that's
it and then you got the third approach
which I would Loosely refer to as the
approach so people like K and others
really went with that one you know and
it's it's all about how do we makid
approach what are the objectives of sh
are theives right and all three of these
approaches really have their strengths
and weaknesses but I feel like if you
just if you're dogmatic with one of them
to um The Logical end point of each of
them will bring too many negatives so
you have to kind of be balanced in any
one you want so for example if you're a
Shafi or H Hamby or hany whatever it may
be and you don't want to leave the maab
in any way shape or form in any M this
might be problematic especially when we
talk about societal issues big problem
big problems might happen and the same
thing applies if you're Maki because
then you can find the loophole for
anything
and so on and if you're if you're going
with the other approach is like it's
going to cause infighting because that
Hadith and no this my scholar and versus
your scholar so really one has to be
mature in whatever they decide and what
is really required is someone to have a
good backing in in in for example a maab
or more than one maab have an
understanding of Hadith and have an
understanding of M and use this almost
in a merged way what do you think of
this I think this is this should be a
School level curriculum uh so that kids
well not kids but okay High School level
very as soon as he comes into maturity
he would understand that you know
there's more to it than his own you know
hanifa or shaf sure because most of the
people who been trained into Han or shaf
they don't even know the other person
exists you know if anything that creates
polarity and that creates friction even
though sahabas didn't think like this
sure and since sahabas didn't think like
this they had a higher IQ and a bigger
aperture yeah and a Muslim today is so
narrowed into one line thinking he can't
think out of the box not just
about about bigger political Solutions
as
well that's where the IQ for Muslim is
considerably lower than any non-muslim
cuz non Muslim did not have to have that
on line philosophy and they were so
emotionally and spiritually connected to
Islam that anything else can't even come
close to the way we are going to pay our
life towards you know our our daily
routines marital life or or professional
lives all about Islam so as soon as we
know that you know there's only one way
to think yeah all of a sudden our brain
actually you know goes into this this
little you know um one track Highway
that you know we pull our wives and kids
and bosses and subordinates and friends
and now Palestine you know Israel thing
we can't even think that there's a
solution not there in Palestine yes the
solution is somewhere else but we're not
in train into thinking out of that b box
yes and I think there could be a country
and I actually believe that you know if
there was a bomb there's a Detonator
there has to be a Detonator we should be
looking for a Detonator not a bomb the
bomb is already there two billion
Muslims are crying about Palestine the
bomb is there we need something to
detonate that bomb I mean Pakistan is a
like we said before we can come back
full circle but Pakistan is up there in
the candidates of big countries that if
one move it makes you know it's going to
make a big difference but Pakistan like
any other country in the region is going
to act geopolitically uh responsibly
isn't it because like we saw it with for
example um Iran right when they Iran
recently struck Pakistan and then there
was some kind of a response and they
resumed blame in Israel I'm sure that
yeah but that's probably both of them
came together and said let's just use
them they didah tweeted the Dayan truck
Pakistan isah tweeted yeah H actually
tweeted with brackets that you know
combined exercises going on and all
Pakistan retweeted yeah all right how
dare you all of a sudden he deleted that
bracket oh I see really yeah no but so I
was going to say is that look I mean I
studied politics at the under graduate
level some years ago now right and there
was a school of thought called realism
okay and this was really I would think
the dominant school of thought in
international relations which is that
you kind of know what a country is going
to do based on its own interests okay
and if you look at Pakistan is doing
predictably what it would do based on
its own interest whether it's a Muslim
country or not and what I'm saying now
is that in a sense no Pakistan is not
doing any classical uh well most of the
Pakistan are trained into politics sure
that it's like our thing I mean we have
to I mean any school you go to they
would know exactly what's going on in
the political Arena sure that's cuz last
two generations of Pakistan were all
about talk show in politics and most of
the talk shows most of TV all the
celebrities are politicians all the
famous guys are journalists who talk
about politics so it's a thing M A Child
girl or boy gets stained into
understanding how the political thing
works even though it's just the
Democratic side of it sure not the GL
Global actually you will be amazed that
most Pakistani won't even put know how
to put Palestine on the map
that's how unaware they are in the
global Arena I mean they love Palestine
but they don't know where it is so uh
when you come into how a Pakistani would
approach realism and you know their
domestic interest and you know self
preservation of Pakistan for of course
you'll be amazed to think that Pakistan
most of the time goes against really bro
yeah it's pretty so can you give me some
examples of that same preservation than
anything else give me an example of that
what do you mean well
China for example okay you know China is
uh treated as if not all of a sudden our
government right now is actually talking
about China Pakistan is the Israel of
America uh Pakistan is the Israel of
China he literally said it first day in
our office this guy is not even supposed
to be you know holding any office
because he's the interim prime minister
right he's here to just get the
elections done the first thing he comes
in you says officially that oh yeah we
know we the Israel of China so because
what Israel is for America Pakistan is
for China and I'm like okay well then
you should have done whatever China was
requiring for the CPAC to happen right
but we didn't we stopped it because you
know Saudi AR asked us not to because of
American you know conflict here and now
the first thing that ever happened after
the Palestine Thing Happened on the 9th
of October Pakistani government goes to
America you know the the our
establishment is actually you know
talking about what to do from America I
mean that's the last person you want to
talk about the a Muslim leader has to
actually talk
about how to get Muslims to together or
or we have a very very strong Ally uh
alliance with China and Russia that
should have been your first go to
strategy y you know what I'm going to
have a lot of pressure from the
Pakistani people but that's not that's
not that LE of his concern so if you
were to ask like for example if you were
to do like um survey or something right
what would people who would people
sympathize you know more sympathize they
would never sympathize with America
nobody in the world was symp America
fact the fact that you know they're
self- sustaining they're if it was a
choice of America versus Russia who
would they choose in Pakistan they oh
it's it's 99% Russian really yeah but
they never they never go to Russia yes
most of the Pakistan would die to go to
America but when it comes down to a
conflict they' be like you know what
that's a very interesting how about the
same thing with China America or China
no no there's no question China is
something we just our first love really
bro yeah but we never like a Chinese we
just like the country China we've never
go there but you know yeah it's it's
like train we trained into thinking that
China is is that something that is like
you say you trained into it so is that
something within the blood of the
pakistanis like culturally culturally
not religiously yeah religiously you
know what's going on in ug Muslims every
Muslim in Pakistan conscious Muslim
would be like you know why and no
government talks about it you know
people who
love you know the political leaders the
most beloved of the leaders they go to
China they never talk about you actually
some sometimes when n Sharif was asked
or Imran Khan know people
choices these two they're like yeah we
talked about it behind closed doors
they're never going to answer it I mean
it's like they have actually the Chinese
guts to shun that question from a local
Pakistani and the local Pakistani
wouldn't really ask this heing follow-up
question CU they were like yeah okay
it's China so you know it's like uh but
religious youth religious people
conscious Muslims are slapping around
their leaders but why why why are you
just so quiet by ug Muslims it's like
what's I mean that's a litmus test
that's classic Cas as well I mean I mean
that's that's another thing kmir is is a
complicated issue for the fact that
local kashmiris yeah they have a you
talking about local Kashmir in Hazard
Kashmir no no no they're they're they're
they have no choice but to be Pro
Pakistani right they are literally in
Pakistan I mean you cannot tell whether
you in Kashmir Pakistan when that's like
you know any other city in Pakistan sure
but I'm talking about the place where
Indians are occupying okay sure that
local Kashmir has this this more of a
split and uh even in uh I was speaking
LSC right now two three days ago London
School of economics and this guy was I
mean this is a classic
Kashmir uh response that I asked you
where you from and are you from Pakistan
or India because you guys are here
because this it's not like a public
event a close LSC event and this guy is
like I'm from Pakistan and this girl I'm
from Palestine and since I they know I'm
a Pakistani so this guy com in like oh
I'm from Kashmir and I'm like I mean
India or Pakistan it's like no I'm from
Kashmir okay and I said what's the color
of your passport it's like why do you
have to ask me this question said
because you know the answer he said okay
it's red so why did you say you're in
India I mean it's like why do you have
to just pump up this independent body
but I get it I mean even they have this
thing going on so there is a problem
inside Kashmir that pakistanis as
Muslims whenever you know there's a
bigger movement towards um you know you
might have noticed that most of the
Muslim scholarship around the Arabian
world as well when they say Palestine
they don't just say Kashmir right as a
followup you know cuz everyone kind of
has this feeling that it's more of a
political thing than a religious thing
even though Muslim man as an individual
I know it's a religious thing cuz any
human being would have been you know
suppressed like this he's a religious
thing let alone a Muslim in Kashmir I
mean South Africa was a Muslim thing we
should have gone to South Africa to
against the part but Jews did you know
and they actually followed the Torah we
didn't follow the Quran you know when
Allah didn't
saylim Muslim you know so it's it's all
about you know when Muslim actually
knows that there's a human being in
trouble is a Muslim thing to go and save
him so Kashmir is as Muslim a problem as
anything else yes it is but if the
locals actually you know endorse this as
well and all of sudden as soon as you
know Muslim help of any sort political
apolitical you know Jihadi a
Jihadi personal a personal comes in all
of a sudden we see 5050 you know you we
don't want your help okay it's none of
your business sort of a thing mhm that's
why big scholarship in Pakistan Muslim
scholarship they they don't really
consider Kashmir as a Muslim problem
they like you know they made it a
political problem it's more of a
territorial dispute than anything else
really and I'm not saying I believe that
yeah cuz I just told you South Africa
was a Muslim you know what I'm saying
but you know it's pretty you know hard
to help somebody who's pushing you away
while you're helping him yeah I see what
you mean but I I do get a lot of we see
a lot of videos in Kashmir of people
like really ask no doubt no doubt and I
said I I I I I think it's a Muslim
problem I personally believe it's I mean
it's hard to you know you're trying to
save a drowning man who's trying to push
you back in pull you into it but how why
do you feel like that why do you feel
that's happening that that they're
trying to push you back in well because
uh that's where it comes political
because the locals it's a the a lot of
years has been spent training the locals
that we do not want to become a
dependent entity of either India or
Pakistan
right that should have been your step
one to become the dependent entity of
somewhere and even if you are going to
be dependent on a Muslim uh even if it's
a corrupt Muslim Nation like mus
Pakistan you still would not have been
raped and suppressed and you know killed
and you know
butchered no one is getting raped or
butchered or killed in aad Kashmir right
I mean this is this is uh a Muslim duty
to do for all the Muslim leaders there
that you know what we are in some sort
of a trouble or women are in trouble our
kids are in trouble our Dean is in
trouble let's just get out of this
little you know little commotion that
going is going on between on the street
whether we have to color the streets
green or or red for India or Pakistan
let's just get you know out of this
constant torture of getting raped and
you know getting killed literally killed
uh but they didn't they you know somehow
it's a mixed feeling somebody gave them
that you know unless we're independent
of Pakistan do you think if we did a
survey in um so so many surveys occupied
Kashmir that the majority of people
would say they want independence and
they don't want the Pakistani help or
see that's a secondary question in my
opinion you want to get raped or not
should there be a threat of being raped
or killed or not that should have been
the first survey you know but I'm sure
they would say that we don't want to
yeah of course that's 100% cuz you know
so any solution any port in a storm
right any port in a storm rather that
you you know I want my kind of Port
unless I I get to you know Mainland my D
I'm not going to you know come out of
the storm that's that's that's not how
it's supposed to work it's an Islamic
duty to come out of the storm save your
kids and I know the kind of problems
they could have been rationalized into
that you know in under Pakistan you're
not going to get your own real
sovereignty or Liberty or okay smaller
problem right now your house is on fire
right now kids are burning you know this
is why I'm saying it's an Islamic
problem but do you think the Pakistani
people would want to go to war with
India over this issue people yeah really
yeah well see there's a Spate of
Pakistan every country has I'm I'm sure
Egypt and gemen you
mean most of the people are religious in
Pakistan you know a bigger survey
recently done most of the Muslims wanted
an Islamic system really yeah so it's
not like liberal any know a lot of the
Pew um surveys have already kind of seen
that Pakistan is is pretty pretty and
you'll be amazed as to how how proud I
am as to what kind of hope I get when
you see University youth and campuses
discussing Islam discussing Hadith and
you know discussing you know
legislations regarding Islam and Sharia
you know that's that's has never been
the case actually we were the most
liberal of all the countries of Muslims
in the first 10 years of know
Independence MH and Jackie Canada used
to be a girlfriend of our own president
in Pakistan you know it's that it's it's
that liberal and you know having a
little bit of a sha on your head was
like a Muslim thing you know uh and now
J is literally jumping into you know
movement for you know Islamic thinking
and debating and that's why I want you
here you know because debates are
opening yeah like heated live debates
with serious argumentation I mean people
do homework before they come in and
they're really you know making clusters
and you know there's this this this this
electricity flowing all over the place I
want to ask you about that more about
the the social aspect but one more
question about the separatism or the
kind of like political landscape just so
I can understand as well so we spoke
about a little bit about Kashmir there
are other provinces in in Pakistan for
those who don't know Pakistan I don't
know how many states is it there's many
four provinces four provinces right uh
other than Kashmir so you've got like
for example beluchistan yeah problem
where the problem is now with Iran that
took place a huge Province um in terms
of geographic size there's also
discussion about independence for that
region um what do you make of these
kinds of discussions what do you think
pakist Pakistani opinions are on that on
that I think it's not just the Pakistani
opinion any Common Sense thing would
have uh done the math on this that you
know more Indian uh interests are CU you
know indiaan and Pakistan are
just you cannot talk about Pakistan
without India or India without Pakistan
yeah and that's a big problem instead it
should have been like could be said that
India is like the the Israel for the
Palestinians literally yeah yeah yeah
India is like the Israel actually you
know on the contrary You' be like how
Pakistan is the Israel for in their
opinion in their opinion Pakistan is
like a tiny little country but we are
the Israel for for uh for Indians yes we
trained into it yeah we I mean as
liberal as a Pakistani would get if
India strikes the borders of
Pakistan naked women dancing from their
parties would come and fight India is is
that bad is it that bad I mean that's
how how how it's a totally different
religion when it comes down to India
it's like let so how how do you guys
have relationships with Indian Muslims
how is that love the Indian Muslims is
that complicated no just Muslims love
the Indian Muslim you know cuz it's
common sense and uh we know what Indian
Muslims are going through you know and
most of them admit to it some of them
don't because they're afraid and I have
this big movement called IMS Islamic
messaging system we connecting two
billion people together that's why I
want to meet you so bad coming together
and not just on social media but you
know making physical clusters and you
know trying to do real things together
and I when Indians jumped in they
started getting calls from the local
police and you know politicians that you
know why are you getting the 92 number
19 is the Pakistan number and they're
actually being interrogated right now
it's I mean it's it's that bad so when
you talk about bistan we know I mean we
know isi is in India that's their job to
be and we know raw is in bistan that's
their job it's a thing they they would
not be doing their job right if they're
not in bistan so it's it's a it's a
pretty gruesome picture from the last
few years so you think it would serve
the interest of the Indians if they were
to become say for example if the if they
was become independent region it will
serve the interest of Indians if
anything goes wrong in Pakistan that's
how you know the wiring is done of the
two countries it there this is not a
coincidence that Pakistan is so uh you
know when when you think of Pakistan as
because you're not a Pakistani you think
Pakistan you all of a sudden you think
Pakistan Army I'm saying I mean I don't
think Egyptian Army assigned to like
Egypt even though it is literally I I
should but it is it is that sort of an
inevitability and it's it's not just
just India but most of it has been India
because of which we've been you know any
child goes through any kind of schooling
in in Pakistan he'd be he'd be you know
emotionally wired into this concept and
that's why India Pakistan games you know
Cricket the sport I've seen I don't I
don't watch it in the Guinness book most
amount of people that ever saw any game
was India yeah like literally World Cup
forget soccer no you're kidding me you
do the r the mat man that's the Wiest
that's what I'm saying that is literally
the case because of the size of the
populations man it's not yeah that is
primarily the but the cause of those
numbers actually come from this
history this history is like you know
it's it's there's nothing like it on the
planet Israel Palestine not close but in
terms of numbers this is much bigger
isn't it not just numbers some
Palestinians would let go of some Jews
I'm telling you Pakistani and Indian not
going let go
anything okay so let me tell you now
let's let's move on to Pakistan a little
bit more in terms of the collective
Consciousness and you are talking about
the kind of like um the spiritual
awakening yeah we're we're now living in
the age of distraction yeah the age of
distraction the age of addiction you are
um a psychologist yeah um tell us a
little bit about how you a Muslim
psychologist or a Muslim speaker and a
psychologist deal with the current like
how you've become very popular because
of this you're speaking in mod in terms
about how to deal with the modern issues
yeah so first of all what do you see as
the main challenges in terms of this
theme of addiction and distraction and
then what are some of the main
Solutions okay the solution is lying
inside the problem here okay fine okay
yeah or the other way around as well
okay but since we're talking about Islam
and you actually okay
see there is a certain
dopaminergic value inside uh the word
charisma sure okay and
that's what makes you addicted to a
person or a video mhm in this case when
you're in YouTube people only listen to
you if you're making not just some sense
anybody would make sense but you're
putting that certain element of
eloquence and the sense of timing of how
to actually place an argument at the
time and it's going to matter the most
for The Listener has to oh my God you
know what the way he said it at the time
he said what whatever he said matters
more than you know the the homework that
you did of course the homework is a
given so if Zak n you know Zak n of
course of course zachik is dopamine
value is his memory yes even though any
scholar would know the the references
he's doing but the way he's narrating it
at the time where the enemy is a
non-muslim no video of zakin n would go
viral if the other party was a Muslim
it's very powerful you say that actually
you might be surprised to uh to know
this but actually actually came across a
peer-reviewed um academic piece about
zachik written by some academics I think
they were non-muslim in Germany and and
they were saying something quite similar
to what you're saying because they were
trying to figure out the phenomena of
Zak and Nik yeah I forget the name of
the article but it can be found online
but he was they were effectively saying
look Zak and Nik um his clearly his
impact has been disproportionate is
massive in terms of obviously India and
and all over the world actually became a
very
um big International figure and part of
the reason why they say is because of
his public speaking ability the way he
the way he actually comes across with
those ref there's the science to It Go
on tell me because they they're talking
about the same phenomena but they're not
splitting it into you know the structure
so you're interpreting it a little bit
different way oh yeah yeah I'm talking
about pure physiological science here go
on tell me more
so imagine a machine gun okay okay we've
been talking about bombs uh and machine
guns I mean what
kind a computer computer it's not going
to have the same do me yeah see there's
a mechanical thing yeah even if it's not
a gun it's shooting something at the
time where you can see the whole science
behind how technical it is for you to
not even fathom how it works all of a
sudden becomes overment sure right
that's dopamine okay something that you
can't even achieve and this guy is
achieving so easily
but you know the utility of dopam is a
neurotransmitter right yeah it's a
neurotransmitter classic steroid it's
it's a it's something okay yeah let me
just six neurotransmitter dopam is it
five no the dopamine has five centers oh
sure no there way more than six neur the
big six okay sure sure so that's why but
dopamine is something that gives you the
kick that gives you that sense of
achievement that give you the sense of
Fascination and most of all that gift
fulfills the Curiosity see all of them
combine in people like Zach and kn M
okay it only matters if you have that
sense of achievement it looks like it's
combined on yourself as well a little
bit huh no but I know how it works I
know it works you know everybody fell
for the Charisma of zakar Nik but I'm
telling you if it were not a Hindu on
the other side zakar Nik would not have
been Zak because whatever he was doing
was
awesome but since it mattered for a
Muslim that the other party was a Hindu
yes even though he was not even 1% AB
you're absolutely right I think I think
that's the case with most of the Heroes
of Islamic history Salah and then you
have Rich if it if if it Mar not the
Christians Salah would not have been
Salah exactly right you know what I'm
saying so or if the Christians were not
so well equipped you know I'm saying
hostile yeah yeah well equipped mostly
because you know hosle could be a
militia sure but the whole English you
know campaign was being run here or the
European for that matter in Zak is the
more vile the Hindu is going to be on
the other side the more dopamine is
going to be released in the Muslim mind
and you know some is going to be and
that's what's going on in your videos
yes anybody who going to come in you try
and debate with you I've noticed that
yeah I have noticed that so I'm thinking
you might want to even stage some stuff
for some I'll tell you and I'll tell you
why because it's a service to Islam I'm
telling you without letting anybody know
you need to telling everyone now still
still going to work that's the power of
dopamine but let me tell let me tell you
something about that right because I'll
be honest a part of it you're talking
about dop me from the end user I want do
me for myself but that would be there
then no I get you but even even as a I
not as a worship matter as a sense of
authenticity for I always like to test
myself you all authenticity dopamine is
not that is not uh dopaminergic
authenticity is serotonergic really yeah
tell me why see the hierarchy of
competence is not dopaminergic and as
soon as you put hierarchy of competence
in play that's serotonin really and the
more authentic you are the more
oblivious you are as to who's on top of
you on the hierarchy right because
authentic is irrelevant of
comparison you can only authenticity is
absolute it's not relative and what
sorry to ask but this might be obviously
some of the viewers but um what is the
main difference in in the way serotonin
works in the way do Works serotonin is
see so okay this is a little biger of a
discussion let me just uh because but I
mean in terms of um anti-depressants
sometimes you get like this kind of yeah
what depression is falling from the
hierarchy right sure if you're falling
down the hierarchy they're going to take
you up with an SSRI yeah SSRI right
which is serotonin serotonin inhibitor
well reuptake inhibitor SSRI is
selective serotonin reuptake IND because
when the serotonin goes into a receptor
it has to reuptake it but it stops the
re-uptake so that you can you know keep
that serotonin okay okay so that's
that's classic body mechanism dopamine
is is a little bit more is it a little
bit more um does it is it more fast
acting no well serotonin will be faster
in action but dopamine would be be
uh it has more variety of compartments
to act upon okay seratone only acts in
one thing okay okay well so your sense
of achievement is not
ceric okay you achieve something if you
complete the process that's dopamine you
know if you have to service your car
once you service your car you're going
to get dopamine okay okay so if you had
to complete this video as soon as the
video is complete dopamine you're going
to get a good comment dopamine cuz
that's not sense of achievement that's a
sense of recognition that's a totally
different Center of dopamine they five
centers of dopamine M okay so different
centers different mechanism sense of
completion dopamine sense of achievement
dopamine sense of recognition credit
serotonin is your alignment in the
hierarchy of you know of uh so is is
that linked to
fulfillment fulfillment yeah well well
that's a a sense of achievement yeah
well fulfillment could come from
anything contentment contentment okay
that you know I am content with whatever
I got CU now in the anti-depressant
worlds uh in the pharmaceutical industry
is more ssris have become popular isn't
it not just popular they're actually
making sure that you get are addicted to
ssris okay see you're going to dilate
the whole Center mechanism the two
neurons talking okay this is this is a
receptor on the neuron the bigger the
neuron the center is the more it's going
to require with more SSRI externally
induced you're going to need more next
time you're actually going to go into
depression right that's true and that
next SSRI is going to be not enough so
you're going to have more just like
smokers once you increas yeah well
that's called dilation so from the last
few Generations you can see and they
measured it you know your dopamine
levels are gone million times more
literally because of because of the
screens and because of addictions yeah
because of you know lack of effort more
convenience you know more convenience
dopam energic that's this is this is
important I think a lot of people now
are suffering now that like mental
health has become a thing especially in
the UK and definitely in the west
definitely probably in the world I mean
because of this this kind of thing so
now someone that's overusing the screen
someone that's watching a lot of
Television someone that's watching
movies and series someone that's smoking
someone that's U you know eating fast
food and we all do some of that fast
cars you know microwaves fridge your
classic you know everything that is
reducing effort yeah we will do some of
that stuff like everyone's going to go
on Twitter and stuff it's very difficult
to avoid all of it what's some practical
advice that you can give to people that
are actually living this kind of Life
s that's it mhm you you know start
walking to your whatever work because
people used to walk way more than what
you where you live and work right now
yeah and so it's possible it's possible
for thousands and thousands of years now
all of a sudden we a natural disposition
that it's not even possible from North
London to East London it was way more
possible for way longer distances in the
same 24-hour cycle so is it walking in
particular or any kind no I'm talking
about washing your clothes to you know
ironing your clothes to cooking doing
being more handson more organic that's
the word raising pets having animals cuz
because that's the natural speed of
things sure okay the natural speed of
things is organic if you're going to put
yourself into natural speed of things
it's literally Rehabilitation of
dopamine because I feel like sometimes
when I go to a place and it's empty and
it's der or it's desolate and I'm there
by myself I actually feel almost a sense
of anxiety bro cuz I feel like I'm I'm a
f life in Pakistan we've done
experiments in the I've done experiments
with school kids really with the white
rooms nothing in there just a little
seat and a table and a book they never
read the book really first that is the
activity and we actually monitoring them
with mothers standing outside CU they
got ADHD and whatever kind of you know
problems they're going through and I'm
like put them in a zero room it's called
a zero activity room he's got nothing no
sharp uh you know instruments or pencils
or anything he's just a bathroom he has
to spend 2 hours only
and it's well heated you know well
maintained if it's too cold it's heated
if it's too hot it's you know well air
conditioned and you talk about s this is
exactly what the prophet did in the in
the cave yeah that's what I'm saying S I
didn't say sunna I said s you got to go
through all of those so it's a and
mommies start crying outside watching
their CCT cameras of their kids why
because they can't fathom why they can't
handle no kids are noten even doing
anything you know most of the kids are
going to go through these little Jitters
go sleep or what do they do most of the
time they do go to go to sleep really
they just start walking they just start
touching the floor start you know
painting with their nails on the wall
and uh and the job is to do nothing how
old how old are these kids eight nine 10
really and even sometimes even less so
how do you deal with this I mean how
this is the problem here we've got an
addiction problem we've got things are
too fast clearly the screens are are
taking over our lives um clearly uh
there's an issue here so how how would
you resolve this
issue I think there's still a lot more
opportunity
uh see it's not about the things that
are getting us addicted it's about our
the way we look at these things as you
know uh we've actually reduced
ourselves so much so that these things
have got bigger big on us yeah see now I
can't even think about living without a
cell phone mhm even though theh Prophet
said that you are the god of your things
they are not the god of you you made
them they didn't make you so I can't
even when you say that God you mean
obviously the owner the possessor cuz
someone's yeah but that's theth you know
you you you you you yeah of course you
all know so you cannot cuz if I cannot
live without this it's literally
literally it's not addiction it's
worshiping mhm you know I'm saying I
mean this is as as as much of a TAA I
have that I cannot you know go without
you I'm a nothing toilet you can't I'm a
nothing without you nothing so you got
to have a very strong philosophy to
control yourself that you know what this
is not who I am so how do you like
because knowing all this information how
what's your routine with your phone for
example okay I got a lot more things
than just the phone as a problem right
now because of my my thing so this be
inevitably this is not my most important
thing otherwise I'm not doing it
consciously but you got to do it
consciously and uh the more I you know
go organic you know I'm talking about
those 24 cycle hour cycles and the fact
that I'm placed into four different
countries so I'm awake or you have to be
on the on the plane for that time is not
just that but you know my most of my
clientele is In America which is
nighttime in Pakistan so I'm most of the
time because you know I'm the worst
example for for for for uh you know
establishing an organic routine I'm not
talking about things here I'm talking
about you know my my routines cuz your
diet your sleep routine you better be uh
asleep because this is an HP a dialogue
you know Allah has designed this machine
so that it can clean itself just like a
coffee machine it our body cleans its
own heart with its own cortisol every
night if you're asleep in time if you're
not asleep you know it's not going to
happen just like that dopamine also is
cleanable it is going to retract into
its natural size of of of you know your
your centers if you put enough organic
time into it if you are actually running
if you're actually Physically Active
yeah it makes a huge difference I feel
like being doing a lot of when I up my
exercise I feel so much better than the
week yeah but that's just one of those
things which is becoming going to become
a dopaminergic reaction if you go to the
gym you're just going to the gym so that
you know you can actually feel good even
though other than the gym you're getting
way more dopamine because now that You'
gone to the gym for an hour you're going
to do everything else that is against
going to the gym that's right you know
saying those 22 hours that's right you
know what that's right so the prophet
said do something which is even little
but it's consistent mhm okay so you need
to have a 24 or 12 hour you know
wherever you're awake fully you have to
have smaller things which are
organically placed okay plant trees you
go go green walk you know again do your
own stuff your own self lose use less
machine become less dependent on
machines by Design not only for the for
the sake of look at my my uh stomach is
telling me right
now what I have to eat right now see I'm
I'm growling right
now your body is going to tell you
yourself whether you got to sleep you
got to wake up we are actually using
machine to wake up even the body is
designed to tell us when to wake up if
the child is I'm going to talk to your
mommies right now if your child is
Sleepy he's not going to be you know
telling you of how to help him go to
sleep his body is going to make him go
to sleep if a child is not sleepy you
cannot slap him into sleeping most
mothers do that yeah just like that your
body is going to tell you whether you're
ill you have a fever you're you know
you're curious you're happy you're sad
you're actually designing these things
so that they can actually start
dictating every single action that we're
going to make I was going to ask you a
question I mean we talk about addictions
one of those addictions which
unfortunately even pervade our Muslim
countries is pornography addiction now
how do we deal with that because that's
that's an addiction which I was actually
listening to um I'm sure you've heard
Andrew huberman he also does a lot of
work on like uh dopamine and stuff like
that I heard him have a conversation
with somebody um I don't know who he's
speaking to but it's a podcast like the
one we're having right now and who's
there was an interesting point he made
which is that when you are addicted to
pornography he was making the point that
it actually makes you vo I mean he
didn't put it in these terms but it
makes you vois in the sense that you
become aroused
um based on the third person experience
of looking at pornography rather than
being aroused because of the first
person experience of actually getting
involved in sexual activity so it messes
up the wiring in the brain somehow
obviously this is putting it
colloquially the question is someone is
now addicted whether they are married or
have a sexual partner or not to
pornography um what would be first of
all how do you diagnose this and how
what are the practical solutions to be
able to deal with this okay well there
are two things he missed out on one
thing though CU he got one thing totally
right you're not in control of the
action when you're looking at you know
this sort of an act video is not going
to put you in control that means you
would require less control in your real
life okay and you would want that kind
of script to control your own personal
sexual life with your partner your wife
that really changes things that's why he
meant that's what he meant when he said
he's changing the wording of the brain
secondly it objectifies the very
action and the subject and the object it
actually objectifies the whole you know
routine which again is going to trigger
it's an atypical dopamine cycle okay
that means you're going to have to
recreate all of that with your wife or
husband if you are addicted to
pornography unless you recreate that and
top it because the one time you're going
to recreate that that's going to get the
dopamine Center but how would you
recreate it would they would they watch
it together or how no no no whatever any
one of them has seen that any any kind
of scene they're going to have to
recreate it but they're going to get
that dopamine from that scene now
they're not going to get the same
dopamine from that scene now they have
to top it up so they'll they'll create
fantasies in the bedroom not just that
but the the more extreme the fantasy the
more dopamine yes of course okay so
whatever kind of pornography they I
actually sorry to cut you off um I was
reading a book uh don't ask me why but
there was a book that was written by
this guy called Justin Lia uh and it's
called tell me uh what you want and in
that book he was effectively he done I
don't know it's a survey of 4,000 or
3,000 people in America and he was
asking them what their fantasy their
sexual fantasies are and they put like
you mentioned like a lot of the stuff
would would be considered to be
completely atypical U you know sorry to
say three Sims and incestuous and not
just that but you know go gruesome
that's the word BDSM was huge on the
list yeah and
but then then it'll because there's so
much that a woman or a man can do so
they'll have to come up with some
techniques to actually you know again
topping it up you know just like a a
smoker is going to go into marijuana
marijuana is going to go into coke coke
is going to go into heroin and heroin is
going to overd it's the same thing right
literally the problem with pornography
would be that there's this thing in the
brain called the VTA that's the central
area around which the limic system is
placed and there's this protein
precipitant called the Delta f b okay
once it precipitates there you cannot
get it out sure Parkinson actually you
know people with Parkinson are going to
go through the same thing MH but the
fact that you know even if you have to
get that that is purely dopamine by the
way mhm so if you have to go and get
Delta fby out of the whole cycle you
need an
antagonist to actually work the exact
opposite side of dopamine once this
protein precipitates you're not going to
I mean this is as fatal As It Gets In
terms of these sort of you know this
this realm you're permanently addicted
to it in other words
it is going to make you as much of an
impotent person even though you're not
going to be impotent but nothing's going
to arouse you because even if it does
you'll have to actually therapeutically
arous yourself and hence you know the
those psychologists are going to keep
telling these couples to pretend that
he's somebody else and you know going to
role play that or wear masks or whatever
you know they're going to come up with
all sorts of things but there's a limit
to you know how many masks a man can can
can wear or or a woman can be called oh
you know what I'm saying so these lists
are going to wear out and they're going
to run out of pretensions and you know
scenarios and role plays and the fact
that you know if I am an actor by
Design then imagine the kind of low
self-esteem a person has that his wife
is pretending that I'm somebody else
look at the damage from the other
angle that if my wife has to pretend
that I'm some other man that's actually
shaking the cor of my actual esteem and
my belief as a Muslim I can't even think
about these things right so that's why
Muslims can't I'm assuming Muslim would
never be able to think about role plays
it's like you know this is as You' be
surprised Muslims do all kinds of things
well then they better start read playing
this video all over I even I even came
across scholarly words uh scholarly
classical scholar positions that uh I'm
not going to go into great details but
books have been written about this
basically talking about the what what H
these kind of things have if you're
thinking about it I'll tell you it's for
the boys only girls are going to be
really reactive to this video this part
of the video to skip it but even if boys
are actually pretending that you know
there's because he's someone
else it's not hurting or hurtful in
chemistry then if a man a girl is doing
it cuz if a girl is doing that then you
know it's you're actually opening a lot
more doors to a lot of bigger
problems and now I'm not going to
trigger on by by on purpose the you know
theological Doctrine here sure but cuz
you know every Muslim can do the math
and why it's going to be you devastating
anybody who's even read anything MH but
as a man and you need to understand that
women's psychology doesn't work work
like men psychology MH women's dopamine
Cycles are not about novelty men's
dopamine cycle is novelty
mhm every day so what was it for the
woman then you know long Longevity if it
is not the same guy forever it's not
dogic for a
woman you know what I'm saying hence you
know one husband for the wife in Jenna
mhm and he's not going to be able to
divorce you that's longevity but for the
man you know novelty is dopic m
anything nothing compares to uh novelty
when it comes down to doing for a man's
psychology I mean so that's why if men
are pretending well I get it but if
women are pretending that you know
you're not the husband then you got
bigger problem than just born addiction
buddy way bigger problem yeah yeah also
that's that's um that's the problem
what's the
solution again dopamine works in the
same way so dopamine retardation the
dilation has to be you
know shrunk back into its original size
and not just it's not about the you know
the the dilation it's about the the
triggers as well so you need to take
longer breaks and totally different
level of you know Rehabilitation of do
me for example in this case um I would
use the the verse of the Quran just like
if there is infidelity you know I would
use the same verse you know just got
separate
try and take a longer break go way more
into deeper into spirituality come up
with you know reconstructing yourself
and then come back uh to your husband or
to that wife who's pretending you're
somebody else
buddy this is a problem I mean this is a
problem yeah uh so I'm thinking the
therapy isn't that worse you know cuz
that worse is at that time and you know
you see any kind of I mean you can treat
it as a philosophical
redundance I mean we're laughing it's
not funny yeah and it's so I mean it's
devastating for a man I mean God forbid
oh my God if you
know uh I mean imagine forget it's
physiology right now forget physiology
talk about psychology right now your
self-esteem is you know your there is no
self-esteem here I mean imagine if a
woman is flirting with
somebody was yeah I mean is like as I
mean what else is there I mean there is
no bigger emergency budy uh you're done
I mean you're done way before and this
is
happening I'm wondering who you who
you're addressing at this
point I swear to you are you the one who
came up with this car catcher man yeah
no sure no but it's is a thing I people
fantasize all the time people do and I
said boys B be boys but if you're woman
is doing that your woman already knows
you're not a man
[Laughter]
okay it's not your woman
buddy you mean I mean I know we got a
document for it you have a document for
it I mean that's all you got you know
you can whar around your you know
your
I mean it's not Rocky sign right it's
like common sense I mean it doesn't
think a Muslim to know that even
non-muslims like yeah dude this D's
right Samantha is saying yeah I know
what he's talking about we're not
talking
about even Samantha is like yeah you
know this dude's not our
man so so the solution is you said
retardation yep yep y that like having a
break from from all well no no a break
from General concept of Life which means
you know what separate yourself and uh
you got to have two parties serious
about this concept that you know what
this is a problem I mean this is uh I
mean on on paper it's not going to look
like a problem so you got to really have
a consent that yeah you know what I
can't uh and any real man would be
talking to a woman that you know what
this is not on I mean I mean it's not
that I want to punish or anything I want
to reconstruct myself inide you know or
or or let's just you know call it quits
cuz you need to be with the woman who
thinks you her man yeah you know it's
not just hearing the wrong name at the
wrong time but it's
about it's way more than
that but in general though pornography
addiction in general Delta f b look it
up everywh look Delta FP VTA you you'll
find out how big of a physical ailment
this
is okay so that in terms of screen and
for for Men Let me just scare you boys
impotance literally you're calling for
impotence okay way earlier than it can
possibly come because that protein is
going to accumulate and it's not going
to it's not about the fact that you're
physically impotent your psychology is
not going to let you get into the game
what Rees
function well yeah well that would be
the symptom the cause would be you know
cuz when you go to for for for Ed for to
any you know doctor he's going look how
long does it take for someone to get to
that
level with more pornography the
sooner more videos you're asking for it
I'm talking about decades earlier than
it's supposed to happen if oh is it yeah
yeah literally I'm talking about 40s and
50s men going down literally really bro
yeah yeah
it still I'm talking about you know just
pornography because there are a lot of
other things that actually you know
you're living through because of you
know your own routines of pornography
and uh plus you know what this is why
I'm telling you Islam is such an amazing
solution there's so many things which
are prohibited just so for the sake of
not even going into the Grays I mean
this is As Black As It Gets we're not
even supposed to enter the grace and
that actually you know rekindles
everyday relationships with you know
husband and wife you know it's pretty
organic so now with new uh and improved
creativity of the
pornographers they're going into you
know I mean you'll be amazed as to you
know what kind of reports
we get so compare pornography of drugs
like what what kind of level would be
totally different we're talking about
there is no drug that is drugs are quick
action and uh they're going to for
example let's just take U cocaine sure
no let's just take meth it's got more
dopamine the Coke does it yeah but the
fact is but most people know what
cocaine is okay meth is fine cuz people
know what that is as well well there not
going to much people in Coke when you
you're going to be listening to this
kind of podcast but most of them are
going to be met met
accustomed or me uh aware mhm so me is
way more deadly than cocaine medically
speaking it's got a lot more dopamine
it's more acute it's quick action but
opium or opioids in general opioids are
dopaminergic but let's just say
marijuana okay fine fine marijuana is
not going to intoxicate you so there's
going to be a lot of SC now going to say
that cuz people are going to jump into
marijuana because doesn't really affect
the the you know the general sense of
judgment but it is purely dopamine and
uh it is it's got low dose but low
potency in terms of the measure of
dopamine and I'm not a drug expert just
talking about psychology here uh
but if you're not going
to okay let's just compare coke with
meth and you'll find out what I'm
talking about cocaine you can get out of
meth you won't be able to get out of of
if you cross some certain thresholds
really
yeah because there are there are like
programs for people that meth no no
you're not going to do meth once you
rehabilitate but because of that
dopamine dilation Oh you mean you're
going to be into a lot of the things
which are going to satisfy your dopamine
needs that's the problem okay yeah co co
cocaine is slow action so you're going
to be living a regular life other than
Coke other than your episodes of
whenever you're doing coke right in met
you're owning your 24
hours that's why I'm saying it's it's
quick action it's you know it's it's a
horizontal so compare that with with
pornography then what's what's the
comparison well pornography is about man
or woman right you so you need to have a
man or a woman I'm talking about you
know if you're a man you need women well
now there people watch homosexual stuff
as
well well that's one of the most popular
again the two genders are going to still
remain as two variables right either
yeah so two to the power of two right MH
for uh whatever lgbtq you know to to the
power of whatever but this is still
going to be two sets of genitals right
it's not you cannot confuse that and
that's should be one of the arguments
for against LGBT it's like why do you
you know set pornography as one of your
your case studies you still need these
two genders right so what I'm saying is
uh women are still going to be women men
are still going to be men there's
certain parts in certain curves of the
men or the man woman and there's a
research in that okay and I'm not
talking about pornography sex as a
subject was uh well read and it has been
Google it read it uh of what is the most
attractive thing and why is it the most
attractive thing for the opposite gender
part of the body starting from the eyes
and you know to to any kind of things
and you'll be amazed as to how men are
more attracted towards nonsexual parts
of a woman and if they get too much
explo or too ease too easy to access
they're not actually attractive that's
the design of a human being it's true I
I um and that's dopamine by the way I I
actually there's no effort there's no
dopamine I remember what one time um you
know there's the carnival in there we
have something called the carnival
London Carnival yeah no and sometimes I
just happen to be in the area when
they're doing it
um just happened that's true though I I
just have to be in the area you're
giving me too many cues about a lot of
things man and honestly there was some
some of the women that actually you know
what they wear is they're effectively
naked I mean i s they were effectively
naked U they were wearing like you know
to cover their nipples they were in like
you know what to say like
stickers whatever they call but it was
like M it was basically she was naked
but then it wasn't having a reaction on
me and I think it's the reason why you
just mentioned this because it was just
too it's too easy too easy see see
there's a sense of achievement yes so
hence it's not dopamine there yeah it's
too easy I said okay well this would in
other context probably do something for
me but because you're just putting
yourself like that without any yeah do
you know what I mean like it was too
easy okay well that's not my general
expertise about but you're talking about
pornography I'm telling you this right
now it's way more devastating for women
than men really because they're
dependent on those addicts you know what
I'm saying what do you mean wives are
dependent on husbands yeah yeah oh okay
yeah so if a guy is a patient attendant
is suffering for no reason and that's
the bigger problem for women cuz they're
not
you'll be amazed as to how big of a
difference there is between men towards
pornography versus men and did I say man
you know men and women so women
generally don't even have that sort of a
what's the word they're not going to be
affected to that
level assuming that you know the speed
of pickup rate Remains the Same because
God knows if you know tomorrow more
women are going to be into porn the way
things are going a lot of them do are
into it a lot of sure they are sure of
course that's the power of creativity
behind this this industry I they're
really designing this industry and you
you'll be amazed as to how much work it
goes into this industry way more than
Hollywood or anything else because they
have very few variables to play and they
have way more situations to create and
they want to design dopamine around it
they're designing dopamine energic
processes the budget for a porn movie is
going to be considerably less than a
budget for a film so it can be they can
CH out a lot more yeah scenarios and
that's why they're going to survive
longer than Hollywood but they not going
to survive as an individual filmmaker
the industry is going to survive but
it's not so again women are going to be
suffering more than than men in terms of
no sin and twice the punishment men are
going to know why they're actually
suffering and you'll be looking at men
acting like literally dogs literally
from you know different women just
because of the fact that there is
different face on that body and that's
going to cause novelty the novelty
effect we've seen the dogs and stuff
like and some of the I don't know no I'm
just talking about literally the animal
some some of them actually pretend to be
dogs and stuff okay well okay but I'm
talking metaphorically you know cuz this
guy will be demanding a new woman
literally there's going to come a time
when AI is going to be recreating a new
woman and so AI is not going to put an
actual woman there and that's not going
to have that kind of dopamine but that's
what you know what we're conf we should
know that AI is not going to service you
real women hence that's not going to be
the same dopamine and you need real
women because the conquest is dopamine
and you need to conquer the woman that's
real dopamine MH as soon as you conquer
the the woman that's the real game that
only human beings organically play when
you actually you know propose to a woman
or a woman proposes to you that's a
conquest of a totally different
nature you know and that's an organic
nature that you know what this man is
actually you know given up all of his
life for me or a woman that you know
she's going to spend all of her life
with me forever that's that's actual
Conquest in that really real meaning of
the word and that's why it is such a big
achievement to actually get married even
though you know in my hometown you don't
really have that Conquest your parents
do the job for you oh yes yeah they
arranged now that to be honest nowadays
they're using a apps for exactly the
same effect they talk about arranged
marriages in Pakistan but they have
arranged marriages here in the UK all
they do is they use Tinder to arrange it
for them they use AI to arrange it for
them the matchmaker is is a machine
that's not the that's a conquest yes
that's not a conquest all you you need
to you know propose to your own women
yes and that's something which is U
which is going to get you a lot more
points on the leadership index in front
of your own vibes okay I me if they are
proposing to you it's okay but they need
to know why they're proping to you
that's right rather than just looking at
a picture and looking at your resume
it's it's not a job that you're applying
for man they can do what they like I
mean that's as long as the you know the
the they're proposing in the Islamic
manner yeah it's fine of course yeah
yeah of course I mean I am for the women
women proposing to yeah no problem at
all I mean there's Hadith in the prophet
BK a woman came to the prophet she
said she said do you want anything he
looked at her and he said and then he
let he he kept quiet because he for
whatever reason but he kept he didn't
want to marry her but so this a lot of
Scholars say oh okay you know the about
uh uh Abdullah the father ofam when he
was about to go get married to uh am you
know there was this girl who just came
out of the door because he knew him and
she's like I want to get married to you
and he said since she was already going
to get married to Amna right so that one
these ones are probably less likely to
be authentic but nevertheless no no it's
not about proposal it's about a totally
different context you know meaning is
different got you go so when when he
came uh next time he was walking in he
saw the woman and he looked into the
fact that whether she's going to propose
now CU she was talking about it and she
said no I don't see the same thing in
you he so beautiful it's like you know
it was uh so I'm just you know to good
point um I was going to say to
you another another thing now so people
want to live balanced lives MH they want
to have a good mix between mind body and
soul you deal with a lot of young people
men and women in Pakistan and generally
now I think you're becoming more and
more figer internationally
MH is there are there programs because
you got clients and stuff are there
programs that you put your clients on in
terms of your coaching program uh what
what is a a good old rounded program
that you would suggest to your clients
or generally to the general public for
the sake of what objective the the sake
of living in like you mentioned this ter
or yeah we talk most of my clients or
parents actually most of them they come
for uh other than the business coaching
of course um they come to actually make
sure their kids are you know you know
safe from this dopaminergic routine sure
the addiction ADHD OCD depression you'll
be amazed as the kind of suicide rate in
Pakistan is going through youth youth is
literally doubling every year like no
jokes it's it's going crazy yeah and
those are the people who have everything
like you know they're the top 1% of the
country and they're committing suicides
in their teens and early 20s so imagine
what dopamine can do imagine what
addiction can do imagine what getting
everything can do so the hardship was
the actual design of development and
production and growth and you know
progress you know we didn't get it that
was the god's design of you know making
us and it's interesting cuz I think it
was Arthur shophow very famous
philosopher and he said something to
effect of that humankind I did that's
what I quoted by the way oh really yeah
but he says something effect of like um
that mankind um oscillates vicisitudes
between like periods of extreme fear and
periods of extreme uh boredom yeah and
it's it's because we're living in this
kind of age of safety where we're not
effectively engaging in the wars that's
where we have to try and stimulate
ourselves with all this kind of this we
do we actually tend to induce fear
artificially yes just for the sake of
you know satisfying that little core
which actually lives in fear mhm I mean
this is this is beautiful I mean I'm not
for our shoping hour per se but yeah
they they understood the pattern I mean
this is a natural pattern of course we
should be oblivious to the fear but we
can't nobody can actually get fear out
we have to conquer it not eliminate it
we cannot eliminate it
but kids well any anybody who is in the
bigger cities of whatever country you're
living in right now they're exposed to
that kind of a you know luxury which was
not available not thousands of 50 years
ago so what's a balanced program for you
that you would recommend go 100 years
ago and try and you know try and go see
the Suburban lifestyle is the most
devastating lifestyle right now cuz uh
it's way more it's worse than you know
downtown there's a downtown in London
yeah oh okay what do you call it here
CBD which what what the downtown where
you know the corporate jobs you know the
department life you know London yeah oh
the city the the city yeah okay yeah we
call it so when in downtown Toronto is a
totally different lifestyle than let's
just say tobo and you know GTA area the
greatest area the suburbian life is
literally a a representation of a you
know self-created Utopia about you know
safety security quietness you know
nothing
major going on no extremes of any kind
okay now you need some extreme of some
kind yes okay yes you do yeah the guy
who lives closest to the Masjid yeah
never makes it in time for the prayer
wow okay now there's the design forget
chop an hour this is just is me talking
okay this is a Muslim we know guy who
lives closest to the school will never
make it in time to the school because we
need that sort of problem to create the
dopamine cycle to initiate apprciate the
dopamine cycle to solve the problem if I
do not have the problem I will never
create cuz dopamine means uh the what do
you call in Arab
the okay dopam is you know or so if
there is no dopamine there's no movement
I won't even come out of the bed if I
not have the dopamine cycle running sure
there has to be some task bringing you
know enough uh inviting some energy to
start producing you know some sort of
dopamine like dopamine is people do
martial arts yeah so the guy closest to
the school is not going to make any time
for the school because he does not have
that problem to solve yes he does yeah
and since I need a problem to solve I'm
going to make it in time the far the guy
the farthest from the mid is always
going to make it in the first half
interesting you know because he's had a
bigger problem solved he has bigger
sense of
achievement okay and this has to be that
sense of achievement if there's no
villain there's no hero okay so we need
we create our own villain this suburbian
life is villain less this regular life
is problem less hence we're talking
about excessive dopamine for all the Les
you know the whole time in the podcast
but we need dopamine we need dopamine
organically so we need those real
problems coming in our way so that we
can solve them and progress that's a
healthy brain that's a so in your weekly
program you should have something like
that if you don't have that you're going
to exactly you you're killing your own
self wow with ease like literally no
puns intended m you're killing yourself
with ease because you it's too easy of a
life to live you need you have to have
problems I suffer therefore I am of
course that's not sharp hour you know
what I'm saying well that was good
though I tell you what I mean I think a
lot of people will benefit immensely I
want to ask you if people want to listen
to more of what you have to offer where
where can they go and what can they do I
mean you speak in U fluently obvious
it's your first language you think that
English is your first language you've
spoken in great
eloquence yeah well I was raised in
America so that's why I I I I can speak
English but but yeah I do not have
uh uh I think most of my programs are in
U but I'm actually you know constantly
going through English programming now on
uh just you know I think there'll be we
on a UK Tour all of this is in English
that's uh that's going to be a sge of
demand I think after this
podcast yeah well I because we we've
gotten the dopamin fix once we need it
again yeah I know you can't do this to
us I mean we already addicted before
before before we go into anything else I
I I I really need to uh make a plea here
for everybody who's who's listening
especially to hijab all the time Mah I I
think the bigger dopamine that I have is
and every Muslim should have a
dopaminergic map as to what he's trying
to achieve okay nice um since if
dopamine is selfish okay I mean dopamine
is not per se the the motive or the big
uh Drive of your drive of the bigger
energy sure cuz as soon as you're going
to get
dopamine you if you're getting it for
yourself then you're getting dopamine
your big brother or your own brother
your son getting anything is not going
to give you dopamine you need to
understand that's really yeah if I see
my son achieve something that's
serotonin for you okay that's not
dopamine oh really yeah yeah cuz you're
actually you know this is a hierarchical
thing dopamine only comes to you if you
get it okay that's the beauty of it it
mean makes you selfish the more dopamine
the more selfish you are bigger problems
in this planet are because I don't mean
ironically you know most Pakistan are
going to listen to this they know all of
whatever I'm talking about cuz I'm
actually known as dopamine really uh cuz
I talk about it so much cuz I think this
is the biggest problem in the world
right now MH you name you name a bigger
war from Vietnam to you know this
Palestine War this what do you think
this is the naan dopamine War all he
wants is you know to save his own seat
for the next uh you know whatever
election is going to come in this is
just do me you mean these guys are not
people of purpose I think this guy's a
psychopath no he's not a people of
purpose he's as psycho as anybody in in
you know India Pakistan or wherever
dopamine makes you blind selfishness
makes you blind it lowers your
IQ any child who's addicted or if I'm
going into some task I will naturally
lose the big picture dopamine makes you
more focused hence ADHD okay focus is
too much on that one task it makes you
lose the bigger you
know the wisdom quotients go down
intelligence questions go up wisdom
questions go down I'm going to be very
more intelligent about things that I'm
doing right now at that point time so if
I'm actually you know um trying to find
something in my my glove compartment in
the car let's just say a nail clipper
I'm not even going to look for anything
else other than a nail clipper even
though there's so many things that I can
use to clip my own nails or you know
later on I I I I need for that day but
since I'm only focused on one thing
increases my focus so much that I'm
going to be literally looking at
anything which looks like a nail clipper
that's
dopamine okay so it increases the focus
but it loses the the the big picture
perspective you lose yourself in the map
that's what Netanyahu is going through
as well and I think that's the
strength that we can actually we have to
understand how human beings operate and
that is anybody's weakness let alone his
weakness but of course these people come
don't come alone they come with a lot of
advisers and Consultants just so that
they can you know slap they all got
their own dopamine systems yeah no you
know most has this amazing amazing setup
I read about this 10 10 15 years ago
most had mad act because of this is
called the the confirmation bias because
you know you get into this one belief so
much that you forget about that that's
you know that's I mean what's wrong with
it you can't critically analyze it so
they come up with the cycle of 11
whenever they have a am decision they
put that one guy who's going to oppose
that decision by job by Design no matter
what happens he's going to oppose that
decision he's going to do all the
homework to back up that argument to
oppose the
consensus that's his job we have a
couple of those guys here in the sapiens
the street as
[Laughter]
well well that's a totally different
disorder a Muslim has it but if he not
doing under the mosa technology or
technique that's that's just could be
arrogance or well or or could be that
they're right you're totally doing maybe
that guy's
me yeah go say what I'm saying is
so but to break that dopamine cycle they
have this one guy like you know what no
matter what they're saying and even if
they're right your job is to die proving
them wrong and that's an
alarm that's an alarm that's a wup call
actually by the way the the the great
Arab isra War they were notified by MOA
even though every was was giving them
this Intel that no no it's not going to
happen they just you know and but you
know the the whole preparation committee
was being triggered by this one guy that
you know what that's my job J MH and I
know you made a decision that you know
the Arabs are not coming in but that's
my job to make you get prepared so they
had that sort of a preparation that save
them I mean that's something which we
should learn from again we're twisting
the tail a little too much let's just
come back to Simplicity but my purpose
is my problem is simple there are about
4 million people in England Muslims
about a million and a half in Canada and
uh closer two in America
Muslims there're 250 million in Pakistan
and they're uh about close to 200
million in India Muslims okay so you you
you can see the map and you can see
effects of people like Muhammad hijab
and you know people who are actually
calling the shots and dopamine cycles of
human beings calling Muslims to some
sort of a cause or a purpose uh boys and
girls now unless we know
the effects of you as hijab
scientifically and I need you to prosper
in those you know what I'm saying so
that you know which what works and where
it works
and make sure you become a lot more
consistent and better so that these
numbers start rising and unless you put
them into a let's just say a 10-year
plan of where you want these millions
people in 10 years cuz they're not going
to remain 20 year olds in in 10 years
they're going to come into an effective
career life whether we like it or not
they're going to have some sort of a job
which we naturally have to do because of
whatever parenting that is being done
good or bad they need to come from this
capitalistic perspective to some sort of
a
power and if we can connect that power
in 10 years even if 1% of these Muslim
women and men at that time mostly boys
that
means that means a lot bigger Force than
any nuclear bomb that we have in
Pakistan or wherever because that's
millions of people coming together but
we're we're not realizing how powerful
you
are because we're not doing the science
behind this and if you how would one do
the science behind this well first of
all you should know what's you should
read into what people are you know
really sticking to rather than just you
know good comments or bad comments
critiques or rather you look into the
fact that which video had what kind of
dopamine value at what point in time
which actually triggered a bigger
response you know what I'm saying so if
I look at a hi High Park video and some
atheist is debating with you it's not
going to create much over me unless he
comes up with an argument nobody else
has that shouldn't go on your YouTube
you know what I'm saying because if you
actually consistently putting same sort
of arguments on your YouTube video
because you have to put some video
because this is for learning everybody
everybody has to learn because now
everyone's going to watch every video
but that's going to reduce your dopamine
value uh
invariably okay so you need to design
some sort that's why I said you stage it
if you have to Stage it because that's
for the bigger good and I'm not talking
about stage it like you know acting as
an atheist no no coming up with question
nobody else has come before and I'm
talking about any subject matter I'm
just talking about atheism right now
because a is does not have that kind of
the by the way Richard Dawkins is not
big
enough okay
because he's the only source he's lost
the X Factor now as he's two I think uh
John lnox is is is the guy who actually
reduced all the do you know he he
deflated the bubble it's like what what
did you do man I mean you know he went
in too soon in terms of the you know
Allah's plan of course so what I'm
saying is when you're debating an
atheist is you debating anybody under
that umbrella that umbrella is not big
enough I know you're England most of the
English is atheist okay I get it but
globally atheism is not the biggest
problem mhm there's a bigger way bigger
problem than atheism course and all
those problems are
dopaminergically can be dopaminergically
sorted you need to see which one is you
know in the in The Sweet Spot the green
zone you know because a lot of things
which are not even going to concern you
which going to be you know highly do
eneric but that's not your field of play
could be you know some Pol IAL you know
you know thing going on in America or
whatever I think I'll be honest from
from my already my analysis what I
realize is that when we have these
authentic
exchanges a lot of people find comedic
value in a lot of the stuff that comes
out of of of my videos and what I
realized therefore is that we're living
in an age where really to get people's
attention you need to have a little bit
of not just comedic value but
entertainment value which is which is
why those are the fillers if you like it
I mean I I was going to say that the way
I was thinking in the next 10 years is
something effect of like a like um
funnel right so at the top of it you've
got you've got like if you like the top
of the funnel is more uh content which
is intended to entertain okay like so
the entertainment value might be 60 or
70% of the actual content and at the
bottom you have things we do in this
very room so for example we go through
effectively an education course we've
got hundred hundreds of hours of
education course here in saping
Institute where we speak about you know
feminism liberalism atheism whatever it
maybe the SE of the prophet mham in a
critical way so we've just done 10 parts
of the the critical s for example um
these are things we do so that's the
bottom of the funnel for the for the
enthusiasts for the ones who want the
raw product you know the the ones who
can yeah but you need to uh you know
triple the number of these enthusiasts
yeah every year right and these serious
people who are in those courses
especially doing
or or you know Arabi or you know
Hadith these people are going to be
there for whatever reason no matter
you're doing great in the videos or not
that's a certain number you need to know
what that number is and if you're not
increasing that number you're not doing
the job somewhere else somewhere about
10% yeah so it has to be about 30 or%
unless two years from now sure so unless
you're doubling this number you know
somebody else is servicing you this
number by the way yeah you know what I'm
saying cuz I I can get a religious
person regardless whether I am religious
or not
so I didn't do anything for that
religious person to become religious he
actually is going to come and reject or
select me after he listens to me he was
religious way before I even started
speaking right yeah so these people are
there because of this little Bassin that
was created by somebody else 10 years 20
years ago now you're in the game and
you're not just anybody I'm not trying
to you know boost your ego here I'm
trying to give you
responsibility reaction yeah you you
that's why I spoke about this after we
spoke about do no no this is a very big
responsibility because you and I are
going to be fried 10 times more in the
day of judgment that you know we gave
you and we give you a handle on people's
minds and hearts you think that you know
a lot of saas didn't get that you need
to understand you know we name our kids
out of those
saas you're talking about millions of
people job this is this is not an easy P
to step on every single day you're right
and you better be a good chess player
with this cuz you need to know which you
know where pieces you need to connect
all of those you know clerics of America
and then Canada and I can't cuz you know
what they don't know me now they do you
know what I'm talking about and even if
they know me they're not going to go
through why I'm doing whatever I'm doing
because it's not in English most of the
time and I'll tell you I'll give you you
know since we're recording this your
second entry in Piers Morgan you know I
was thinking why did you have to go you
know I'm telling you you know why cuz
there was a risk you took you took a
risk
at that level of Charisma which people
are going to stick because I need I'm
talking about those enthusiasts remember
that everybody else doesn't even matter
we're talking about that real drain
that's you know that real you know
what's the word that that pure gold that
you know seeps in through all of those
funnels combined that is the number you
need to increase because you're not
going to get everybody to become a
Muslim or every Muslim to become an
Enthusiast or every every Tuesday to
become a performer mhm but the only way
to get performers is to that little you
know you know that final count that
sticks to you every program they're
learning Hadith and Quran you know
whatever those are your your real
soldiers and those are the numbers that
you need to increase so next time or the
second time you went to the Pierce M
show with what's his name yeah I don't
know somebody named him so
appropriately Unholy schoy yeah you
pulled out a card which I was not I'm
telling you as a psychologist like why
did you bu people this daughter's card
why why why would you have to talk about
this I'll tell you why because no matter
what happens there's a reciprocative
damage that is being done on the Muslim
flank here and I'm not talking about
General Muslim I'm talking about your
enthusiasts you you see the risk you
took a risk and I'm like okay he's got
some guts to you know it takes guts to
to to do that but did he do it by Design
or did he do it out of a reaction that's
the decision regular man is not going to
be making now it's by Design yeah I'm
sure it's a by Design because it's you
know it's Global TV you're talking about
but a regular girl or a boy who's he
sitting or going to sit in your Hadith
class year from now he's not equipped
because he's not old enough or wise
enough or politically Savvy
enough you need to see you're playing
with a very you know crude number which
is very volatile right now MH let just a
10% you to said you for that to happen
to be in millions and you need Canada
you need America you every Muslim uh
from English speaking countries so this
is a platform I don't have you have it
you different um market now Udu is one
of the top languages in the world yeah
but you need to understand I'm in
England right now you know why I'm in
England because the people who speak Udu
they're the conditions that they're in
right now their IQ is no more than 90
right now and they're not going to go up
to 100 in the next 10 years unless of
course big exposure comes and overseas
people who are speaking Udu speaking
overseas they're uh the finest examples
of what they we can actually you know
the the good parts of the machine
they're not a machine and you can you
can have some parts of the machine I
have some parts of the machine have
fewer than yours but you need my parts
of the machine too of course and you
have no idea where I come from they're
so
emotional and that's the cultural thing
so they're going to watch your video
thank God they don't know English
they'll be like why would you talk about
Somebody's Daughter like this you know
they know it's uh it's it's who he is I
think they they give me yeah I know he
was he was you know you had to take a
you you shot him you shot him you need
him dead you shot him but I'll tell you
psychological tactical error true
because that number is is my my my my or
your wor oh the the the 10% yeah
everybody else doesn't
matter he was going to give you a lot of
things in the plate you know what I'm
saying and in that show by the way
that's the only real show where Pierce
Morgan is pro you or a pro Muslim cuz he
has to compensate for the last episode
he's compensating you're not noticing it
he's overc compensating and instead of
you using it to you know make them fight
with each other you'll be like you know
what let's talk about your daughter's
career like whoa this is it working but
you know the thing is about it is that
it's stuck in everyone's mind including
yours because
no come on it had the dop energic
reaction no it's not dopamine it's
called I swear it's not it's a you
actually rais everybody to a flurry of
epinephrin like adrenaline whoa whoa
whoa whoa who what did he just do I got
to manipulate their emotions like this
you know
yeah Conquest you had him in the plate
you had Morgan in the plate yes yes and
you know you could have searched smoly
on him it's like you know what here you
go you want and you know what he was
actually playing he was jabbing you know
that guy just to overcompensate for I
saw I did see that yeah no no Muslims
should go through students should go
through that tape see see as a study of
the way Morgan is behaving yeah and then
you'll be like he's not that important
no no it's not him being important it's
about you being important you see that I
mean you could have I mean I mean
everybody makes mistakes you're not in
the game of you know politics you're in
the game of religion so we expect you to
be authentic and you know make some sort
by the way show your vulnerable side yes
make sure you make some mistakes when
you when it happens just let it happen
because if you're not vulnerable that
number is going to that's that's
actually one of Robert Green's you know
laws of uh Power he says that don't
appear too perfect one of the things
that he says well yeah well here you go
he knows what I'm just talking about so
what I'm saying is I didn't read that
for many reasons other the first few
laws I didn't really agree with I can go
path index but uh see that's not
vulnerability you show you you didn't
show vulnerability when you talking
about you know to to this
Rabbi no I know what you mean by
vulnerability you mean like for example
The Human Side of the nervousness or you
know I mean asked something when if you
know if somebody says do you condemn
Hamas you know you know the classical
answer of Muslim is not about yes or no
it's about it's about Israel it's about
yes I condemn aass for following the
footsteps of
Israel that's your classic answer this
guy would not be able to budge after
this like what are you talking about
yeah condemn aass for following the step
for the first time it's not a Muslim
thing to do to follow a Jewish you know
footstep but they followed the footstep
of Israel
mhm you know I mean it's like low class
man that's your classic psychological
rebuttal but the fact that they're
playing on this cuz it doesn't matter
what they're playing on cuz even if you
you know no matter what you do they're
going to be the way they are I mean
that's that's the design he's a job he's
doing he's got a he's got a family to
feed he he's got a paycheck he's trying
to follow you get it but you you're not
doing it for the paycheck you're too
important that wasn't the paycheck that
to begin
with yeah I know yeah I know I know see
you're too important in the audience
that you is following you he's not as
important in the audience as follows him
see the
difference I don't think yeah he he
doesn't have loyalists no doesn't matter
if he has Lo not even if he has
loyalists he doesn't have a course the
career that he's in is not important in
the books that the people that his
followers read he's not even a Biblical
figure not a preacher he's a career guy
who's doing his job
the thing that he's talking about
represents money and the people who are
actually trying to make some sort of you
know even if he's his big advocacy bank
they don't really they're not going to
follow him for more than a minute after
the video is done sure your followers
are going to go towards the afterlife or
whatever you're going to say you just
see Theory a lot of people have been
telling me this recently like you know
it's true and I think it has been a like
nowadays after the P Morgan engagements
things have actually changed a lot like
in terms of the the demographic that I'm
dealing with is a completely different
that's that's a volatile demographic
your real demographic is going to come
from directly from height Park videos
I'm telling you yeah they're the kind of
somewhere mid-range in the funnel no no
but those are the people who actually
know you from you know your your growth
of of you know becoming who you who you
want to be in terms of you know what you
want to achieve sure P SM is nothing
that we want to achieve something out of
no I got it's like the funnel approach
he's somewhere at the top of the funnel
like the thing with SCH I considered it
to be a lot of it had to engage with
entertainment because like look in terms
of dopamine one thing that I've realized
and I do look at the the trends and
analytics and stuff um we look at viewer
retention I'm not sure if you played
around with those on on YouTube yourself
like I look up YouTube give it yeah
that's yeah so but one thing I realized
is that you know on my smaller videos um
I've got an extremely high viewer um
retention so it's like small meaning
anything
shorts for example 1 minute that doesn't
count no it counts it tell it still
tells you what no no that doesn't count
in your your bigger
plan release a 4 Hour thing no I've got
a 4 Hour thing as well so what's the's
so for example like if um if I do a
shorts it will have something like 95%
retention yeah so someone who begins
watching it will end watching it but if
I do a three or four hour engagement if
it's if it's a debate like one I had
with David wood or one I had with I
haven't got the access to schmo's one
because it's on his channel but the
clips that we
have it would be um much more than if I
did a podcast for 3 or 4 hours if that
makes sense so a lot of it has to be
performative for me to keep them on on
board for that long because effectively
at the age at the at the point of three
or four hours what is the percentage of
the long videos retention it can go up
to 30 to 40% that's not bad yeah that's
not no because the number you actually
have that's not bad that's that's like
David Wate it's a 4-H hour debate so
that we're talking about if we get
because of the fact that there was you
know a lot more dopamine there because
of the good so with that one bro I was
just going to say that I realized quite
early on I think that for me to keep
these guys 18 to 35 demographics and
that's my analytics to keep them on
watching I need to be performative it
cannot it cannot just be educational it
cannot be just true true no no but
professorial it has to actually be I
have to be not just a public speaker I
have to be a public Entertainer do you
know you know what I mean no but I don't
agree with that I'll tell you why cuz
that's not going to have a bigger long
enough halflife that's going to run down
and then you're going to have to come up
with new comedic you know uh skits but
if we don't do that we're not going to
compete so in that sense I tell you how
you're going to compete way bigger just
the blue ocean thing go wherever no
one's going see your science is backing
you up right now because alhamdulillah
your intelligence not because of your
you know your your gimmicky you need to
see but you not think it's a combination
of both there people that are much more
I am you run the numbers I haven't run
your numbers but run it do a survey
bigger control groups they'll tell you
that they stop watching you or tend to
when you're not being as intelligent as
you naturally are potentially but I
think a lot of it is to do the comedic
effect Let me Give an example right okay
so do you know
um I I
realized when you look at other
academics people that are in the purely
academic field if you look at them
numbers and I've gotten access to a lot
of theirs they get very low retention
rates true very even they're speaking
chumsky now because of his age but
before he had the thing is I do like
what you two things two things let me
interrupt you go
on it's called the down I call it the
Down Syndrome you're actually reacting
to what people are are doing rather than
making them React to what you were doing
you cannot delegate your psych uh
philosophy downstairs your philosophy
has to be yours sure okay so let's just
say people are actually looking at you
you're you're you're Mor of an uh for
the fact that you can come up with your
creative comedic processes little
structures that you incorporate by
Design those people shouldn't be calling
the shots on the your next uh you know
move next move but there must be a
degree of reciprocity yeah there is I'll
tell you what it is that's what I start
with Zak
Nik you should know that comedy does not
even have that kind of dup me
not just comedy but any about comedy I'm
talking about yeah yeah I'm talking
about gimmickry gimmickry has two
different types z n is you know as much
of a
gim so let's just talk about d y d is
the best example I'm the if I had to
choose one guy in the history of the
planet you know public speaking dad cuz
Dad was doing which nobody could fathom
doing it's not about intelligence it's
not about education he had a huge
entertainment Val yeah you know because
it was not was not his intelligence it
was not his great rebuttal no no no
actually if anything the finest of his
rebuttal were because of this other guy
which he was quoting okay it was about
the guts he was showing nobody could
dare say this to Christians or you know
any other religion the way he was yeah
Charisma that was the Charisma Charisma
has its structures yeah Zak Nik had his
memory sure was creating charisma even
though Zak Nik is absolutely not a
charismatic personality I don't know I
think he is in his own way you know well
yes yes your bias in talking otherwise
you know you take his way in his own way
he is are you kidding me with this no I
mean I love the guy I would Li for this
guy but he's not charismatic I mean but
in his own way which is cu how do we
Define
charisma okay let me just that's exactly
what breaking it down sure sure Charisma
is something which is an unachievable
thing which you want and you know it's a
universal thing that you everybody would
want or most of the people would want
that is UNF I do not have the formula to
achieve okay but I know it is there it's
like you know a guy who can sing in
really good tune but how do you put that
in a public speaking context because
like for example I can watch Messi play
football and I can feel that that's
Charisma yeah he is charisma because we
cannot even think about whatever he's
doing right now but in a public speaking
P how would you Z the way he's pulling
out references people would want to do
that is like a superhero effect sure
yeah that is superhero effect okay let's
just call it the Superman effect for now
MH so so this this man Superman is Uber
mench comes out okay because of his the
way he's going to you know start coding
uh the the is even though any scholar
would know the eyes but the timing and
the enemy combined to make a trifactor
got the timing is key Hindu makes the
dopamine value High and the Machine the
machine gun coting the a that combines
to make the triangle that is the
trifactor of the Charisma in Z nik's
case sure in your case you're debating
an atheist now if somebody knows the
answer to whatever is this guy asking
you your question doesn't
matter okay I mean your your argument
doesn't matter but if you come up with
an argument which is unprecedented this
video is going to get you know
subscribers cuz that is something which
you know is an element of surprise but
the there are videos I've done that you
know I find it interesting you say that
because sometimes the most novel
educationally novel things I've ever
said and done are in this very room it's
not just novel yeah it's not just novel
novelty has its own dup awesome Charisma
but novelty at a level very it satisfies
you know some sort of a difficulty it
overcomes a certain difficulty okay you
know what I'm saying yeah but even that
even that like a lot of the intellectual
challenges okay that's difficulty we do
it here at the kind of like the
Institute and stuff like that M but then
I would go to speaker corner or anywhere
else make a couple of folks do a couple
of gimmicks whatever you like call it
whatever you want and that will get the
attention it's it's kind of it is
counter okay we're missing out on
something that's my mistake my mistake
sure certain age yeah sticks to you
doesn't really matter for example 18 to
20 year old they're going to stick to
you because of things which are not even
charismatic okay if a 30-y old or a
40-year-old is sticking to you that
requires a lot more what's the word
achievement sure sure okay cuz he's not
just going to be looking at you know you
know your your fast ones that you keep
throwing yeah he's going to be looking
at something which is you know
substantial valuable and for for the
long haul you know what I'm saying this
18-year-old is not even qualify to
qualify you he's looking at that
entertainment value only okay he's not
even understanding the depth of the
argument that you actually constructed
you know what I'm saying if anything he
is the one who's going to first one
who's going to pound on you for making a
classical mistake and he really good at
that he can qualify that he's not going
to qualify your achievement but he's
going to qualify your mistakes sure so
this guy is a risk you know you a lose
lose situation even if he sticks it's
going to give you a false confidence of
whether you actually did something which
is you know intellectually really high
but that 40y old they're going to be
less in number but if they're going to
stick to you I agree with that I think
that's probably a good way of putting it
but let's put it to your output for
example right okay cuz now that you're
speaking to me many people will be
looking and saying this guy's a good
public speaker especially if this is not
to be his first language he's speaking
very well and you're articulating
yourself very well and you even got good
facial expressions good body language
all of that is there if I were to strip
all of that away and give you a very
thick accent and remove your your
eloquence effectively but the same
information was to be in place do you
think you'd have the same effect it
would have dopamine for sure it's a good
question it would have uh a totally
different age bracket which is you know
oblivious to you know the visible
apparent appeal of things and go to the
heart which is very less but those would
be just serious people okay now I speak
in an accent which I would have speak in
because of the kind of schools I went to
but people who are going to stick to me
because of my hands my my Expressions my
body language they're your presentation
your over present how you look yeah okay
if all of that was not present and I put
you into the body of a of a man that is
morbidly obese okay okay who doesn't
look the way you look first thing I
think morly yeah morbidly obese doesn't
look the way you look like doesn't speak
the way you speak like but you're saying
the same information to what extent do
you think you're going to have the same
effect okay it's it's
called without going to little real
technicality of this first two minutes
of my speech people actually portrayed
the expectation of my body language yeah
so if if I were obese that effect would
have been for the first two minutes
after that the same thing would have
happened whatever is happening right now
okay maybe the end two minutes would
have left or or maybe it would have or
there's a chance that if I were obese I
had no hair and I had a very thick
accent but whatever I'm speaking I'm
speaking it could have created a bigger
dopamine U you know Arch over over this
but if someone sees all that stuff that
they don't like is that going to cause
any kind of a lot of people are going to
you're going to see the comments here
they're going to hate the hell out of
this this conversation yeah yeah so see
there're always going to be two extremes
if you are touching a certain subject
matter there going to be polar you know
difference between two different some
people are going to love you and I know
and I haven't read your comments by the
way and some people are going to hit you
you're going not you're going to find
less than 5% of the people are going to
actually be like you know what I'm
indifferent about if he says something
right I'm going to say yes no no I don't
create indifference I don't think you do
either I think oh yeah yeah that's why
we're actually getting on that well
because it's a chemical thing yeah we
are Stern assertive and we seem as if we
are only going to say something which
we're sure about now that's a good thing
but the flip side is people like you
know what you seem to be overc confident
arrogant sure about things which you
should be sure about yeah or I'm sure
about something exactly the opposite on
the same subject which you are sure
about you know the other side so it's
going to come up with the two tribes
sure and that's okay that's actually a
good thing more heat more friction more
energy okay people who hate you also
think about you mhm and the that they're
think thinking about you because of that
the fact that they hate you for the
right reasons of philosophy oh I like
those kind of enemies they actually keep
you going mhm and you know a friend of
everybody is a friend of nobody okay
that's you know that means you're a
classic hypocrite I mean if you're not
pissing off the wrong people you're not
doing the right thing yeah so it's uh
it's a job of a Muslim to seriously piss
off the the Shan like you know if you're
not hurting Satan what were you doing
this planet and nobody's not a Muslim
you have to be somebody so you better
have some sort of a friction and some
serious you know cuss wordss flying
around you know just because of the fact
that you're you know you you believe in
whatever you believe in and thatly
enforces your belief again coming
back I think there should be a lot more
science going into your your thought
process no you helping me think about it
and just I I do I'm a student of
um rhetoric that's why yeah so I I I'm
not a rhetorician by academic trade by
any but you gotta be sorry not by
academic trade I don't do like um what
do you call it review journals on it or
anything like that but I always watch
people and the first thing that whoever
they're speaking or they're doing a
public speech or they're speaking on the
radio wherever it be the first thing
I'll analyze is how they're speaking the
prophet told us
in that certainly in eloquence there's
magic so the idea of and there's a
beautiful actually which um basically
Hass basri one of
theab he came to Muhammad serin who was
actually a dream interpreter yeah and
and one of the dreams that he had was
that he was on top of a trash Heap um
and he was you know using an instrument
maybe a flute or something it was a
flute it was a flute and um he asked him
to interpret and he said well this means
that you're going to be a fantastic
public people are going to public
speaker and people are going to be
listening to you but what's really
interesting in that dream is that
effectively music was being compared to
public speaking okay and I I do think
there's a great flesh that joins those
two elements a for me it's almost like
if you ask a musician now I'm not one of
them but if you ask a musician uh to to
analyze Beethoven's Symphony for example
one one of his Symphonies or Mozart's
works or whatever it may be right uh and
he says this is what's happening and
this is what it is and this is why it's
good and this is why it's the best or
what
whatever uh then they'll a to do so I
think I've developed some iric some
something of a a sensibility of being
able to look at something and say okay
this is why it's good I actually use the
same dream to come up with why music is
interesting yeah yeah and that's the
dopamine that I'm talking about you know
see every music uh note has a wave wave
has a Crest in a trough this amplitude
but before you get to this to land the
point I was going to say that so with
someone like yourself because I've I
look at it and I I do analyze um you
have two things clearly to offer right
like using you as a case study right not
Zach or somewhere else but the two
things that you have to offer or any
other successful public speaker is the
content of their words and you can put
it this way what they're saying and how
they're saying it right simple as that
yeah the reason why you become
successful is because of both because if
you could be an academic with exactly I
mean many people talk about dopamine
nowadays many people have researched
dopamine to a very very very high level
written countless peerreview journals uh
many of them probably going to be
watching this and say oh he got this one
wrong or that because everyone now
become a scholar right true do you know
what I mean but this is what it is there
are many people out there that are doing
biology and Masters and phds and so on
and they could sit here on this road
chair and talk to me about the very same
things as you spoken to me about maybe
they would be able to mesh it in with
the Islamic and the politics and all the
cuz it's interdisplinary what you've
done however to do it in the way that
you're doing it and to create that
product this is where if feel like the
magic Is this where that's why I say the
public speaking the dopamine is not just
created by the information it can't be
because if it was um it's just like
saying okay well if I put these notes
together yeah it's going to create the
same syy it's not not it's not yeah it's
not cuz the the combination is about
between the speaker and the audience
it's not just the speaker and his
content M and the audience is going to
bring his chemistry yeah so that's what
I'm saying yes I think you should go
into not too much cuz don't overthink or
Overkill it sure cuz if you're going to
break your natural self it's not going
to dopamine any it's got to be authentic
yeah yeah it's not plus it's not going
to have the same kind of dopamine you're
spontaneity is spontaneity is your
dopaminergic Source sure and if you're
actually staging everything or you know
Frankenstein everything down to you know
a construction of Whatever video is
going to make it's going to lose the the
charm anyway yeah however having said
all of that you still need because as a
Muslim because I'm telling you this
unless you okay let's I'm going to give
you an example I'm going to bring you 5
million Muslims in the next 10 years so
that you can like passing the Baton that
here you go they prepared at certain
level I marinated them now you please
cook them for me okay and that's
something which you should be getting
from all the people of the world who are
actually in my shoes you know what these
people do not understand English and I
prepared them enough to actually think
critically go into the next Global level
you know uh influence literally
influence I actually my my the the the
subject matter of my presentation right
now in England is the architecture of
influence really I've broken it down so
that kids here can actually influence
coming into Political political uh Arena
coming into power and affecting the
Muslim world because Pakistani is not
going to affect the Pakistani you know
uh intellect it has to be coming from
America or England because of whatever
Victoria did now she did whatever wrong
she did but she did help create a
platform where Muslims are res four
million are resigning right now we might
as well just use it while we're here or
just get the hell back if you're not
going to use that platform which
Victoria did create then you know we are
the enemy because somebody else is using
the same platform and we here they
didn't say don't use it don't be English
but you are English you're naturally
going to use a lot of that platform so
might as well just use it for the bigger
objective so that's what I'm saying my
dupy would be like okay how many people
can I give you or how many people can
you give the other guy or wherever the
power is needed because this is a game
of attrition by the end of the day it's
not about how many guns or bullets we
have it's about how many people we have
how many Minds do we have and we're not
going to get millions there are only
three or 400 people in the last 500
years that are still Paving the ways of
how Sweden is going to write the next
foreign policy and there's some
philosopher sitting in France or was
sitting in in France or Italy or Spain
or Hume or decar or Kant they're still
affecting you know John Lock is still
calling the shots on the American
Constitution but whoever is going to you
know some guy who is using his mind n is
actually become a fashion now Uber man
is like a you know a go-to word for
every boy who's going to commit
suicide or not you know what I'm saying
Muslims see there are no more books of
feor
Davi they created the bigger change in
their own time now those books are
changed by YouTube videos same age of
audience which were reading Fodor and
now watching YouTube now and with the
same intent even deeper and greater
intent so you matter more than dosi
right now for Russia you he was not as
Global as you are imagine that but he is
now I think well and still not going to
be because the trend is YouTube now if
he were on YouTube I would be like yeah
you know you Level Playing Field he's
the guy Level Playing Field no no it's
not still see that would have been a
good
adversary because he was n in the way he
wrote If he had spoken like that he's
never going to get a a subscriber right
that's a little too you know too uh he
builds up too much okay you've read
Crime and Punishment yeah yeah it builds
up too much I mean I think it's the best
book do you think so oh yeah I because
Muslims are suffering from one thing I
think it's a bit overrated I think
Jordan Peterson probably propped it up a
little bit more than it should have no
he he's too emotional about the totally
different part of the B
you know why I like the book a Muslim is
not crying over his own sins that is the
only book where he where where rascalov
cries over his own sins we are not
guilty in front of our own selves a
Muslim is justifying his sin a Christian
is not at least he's
confessing he's not justifying it he's
confessing to some priest somewhere cuz
he calls it you know a sin you mentioned
n i mean this I think there's a profound
impact that n had on yeah I know I mean
I I used to like okay you you know I
come from the land of fbal have you
heard of course yeah yeah you know
people think he's stealing from Ni n I'm
telling you yeah all kind of people I
don't you know he came up it's a totally
different CA because he was a follower
of the prophet he knew Uber mentions
like you know you couldn't come up with
you couldn't construct the wings right
man I mean there's a lot more that a man
could do and we have that man who did it
coming
back Crime and Punishment comes up with
this concept which I think a Muslim man
is missing right now sure and he's a
religious person buor he came up with it
from the Bible he came up with it from
Matthews actually from John as well if
you cannot possibly punish your own self
for your own sin then there's not going
to be any good and that's a very Muslim
concept you know that's T that is T that
dude did not know the right but he came
came up he actually combined both of
these John and Matthew one ver each so
that he can actually confess to his own
self I mean this this is not even the
complete picture he's talking about the
end of the book
well when Sonia is talking about you
know committing suicide the prostitutes
because she's giving him a lecture he's
actually speaking through Sonia too
that's call oh sure yeah and that's
where he's actually you know thinking
that yeah you know what this is but end
of the day he is one writer writing
three different characters right that's
what most of the readers getting that
you know it's not act Sony and The
Prostitute it is doski man yeah so that
actually you know really you know stirs
you up that you know what this is why am
I not thinking like this but every
Muslim man naturally had to go to T the
word was as common as I gets sure and
the fact that we cannot confess to any
priest that actually puts a harder or a
bigger burden on my shoulders that who
am I confess to you going to the called
you know is what said he said that
something about you know a thousand
prostrations you know that you know the
I'm talking about yeah it says you know
that one Saga that you that is so heavy
on you he going to relieve you the
burden of a thousand beautiful yeah yeah
in Udu it's oh my God I only wish you
knew you know did you know
[Music]
it wow frees the man from a thousand
frustrations if that one that one uh
he's really one of the top pakistanis of
last there's no way you can compare you
know it's like rest of the rest of the
country versus this one guy way the
amount of the the brains this guy
actually produced it's it's too amazing
it's too amazing so again you know so
how can I possibly be tilted towards n
when when we have Bal you know actually
and but you know
it's ironically the same time you know
coming up with the same sort of conceptt
at the same time my father was into
poetry and he had actually you know come
up with because my own favorite poet is
not ibal he another guy so what's his
name you wouldn't know him because he's
not in philosophy
sh he's a classical poet in Pakistan
just poetry nothing else but my father
was writing in Alaska whatever he was
writing in lore you know same kind of
concept so it happens I mean I
understand this this just happens coming
back why are we talking about just Crime
and Punishment I'm talking about your
effect you are writing Crime and
Punishment you just have to look at it
from that
angle every video of yours is a chapter
from a book mhm and someone's going to
write it inshallah after you die or you
you know someone's going to come up with
this because of the kind of seriousness
you're putting into your work and that
someone is not going to do justice
because he's going to be you know
writing about you so need an
autobiography then know like Malcolm X
again you know well I I would assume
that would be like Mal have you seen his
um um well hopefully it doesn't end that
way but have you SE have you read his
autobiography I was listen I have gone
through so much detail about this guy
that's why I'm uh thinking there was a
lot more more most of the people that
know Malcolm X don't really know Malcolm
X you know unless you of course go
through whatever he was going through
and it's not just him by the way it's
all a Nation of Islam actually you know
because
um some only some knew that he was not
actually Nation of Islam yeah yeah oh he
was at one point and then he left oh of
course yeah but he was not I mean he
don't toally different yeah it's a
totally different concept but
uh again you you're right somebody is
going to make Alx out of you maybe
hopefully not get shot at the age of 39
wish that's the exact OPP what I want to
get shot you know I swear I wish I don't
want to die in a hospital or a bed
that's not that's not the way to go it's
a good point actually yeah well now you
made me think yeah yeah I mean I'm not
going to provoke it because that will be
suicide yeah in but I am going to ask
for it you know you know remember the
the prayer of uh in yeah
he said oh my God we both prayed for the
same thing and he's successful and I I
failed cuz he was he Marty that's a
right yeah the night of night of amazing
we're actually going to have a whole
lesson on that um soon yeah so what I'm
saying is see I me I see you I swear to
you I see I see uh I see a number and I
see a number because Prophet said that
on the day of judgment uh the only sense
of Pride that I will have is the number
of you know Muslims in the umah
you think that that totally changes the
way you look at your videos I look at
your videos you know and that should
change the number uh the the way you
look at numbers cuz you need to create
that little you
know um plan of how to get those numbers
cuz it's all about who you're bringing
in it's not about who's winning what
debate it's about who you're bringing in
mhm cuz no one's going to remember any
argument no one's going to remember a
joke or or you know no one's going to
remember which video I like what what
year and what you that doesn't really
stick yeah what does stick is What U
unho moy's daughter's line of business
is oh I'm telling you she might she
might convert man yeah she might
yeah on that bom show I want to really
thank you for coming today no are you
kidding me honestly it's been an
absolute pleasure and uh I feel like
I've been coached myself actually for
now it's I have that beer course I'm
sorry it's an occupation no it's really
no it's good I like it it's it's good
that you come with with that and people
are going to be wanting to watch your
videos so you're going to put your name
which is I'll put the spelling on uh on
this video and of course they're going
to be subscribing to you as well and
doing following your your work your
great work in language yeah well they're
not going to well there's a lot of
English work but uh we're going to be
cuz I'm on this English tour and I'm
going to be going to Norway now it's all
English uh so there's going to be a lot
more English content but my my my
message to it's not about coaching or or
or you know psych it's about coming into
the mission I think more Muslims should
actually start writing down a mission
statement that you know in next 10 years
I mean start chasing longer lives start
chasing awesome deaths beautiful that is
excellent yeah this is this is the the
least that's the the start of Islam and
if you're going to start chasing awesome
Debs only then Hussein is going to come
in and Ali going to come in not a name
for us it's not a name we just start
naming our kids Omar and create copies
of siles in there you know om is a
philosophy it's it's a it's a it's a
system yeah and Shakespeare has a
beautiful saying which is that a coward
dies a million deaths oh yeah because
every day is no I'll just quot here you
know he prayed that you know God save me
from the F of a or a
m imagine the shatter of a self-esteem
from Muslim like me that was saving
praying to save himself from me the
of Imagine imagine what he was going
through and if you know a guy like me
faces him I'm he'd be like dude I'm the
guy to stay away from me you know it's
you're a curs you're a cancer it's
they're a different level they're
they're a different caliber yeah but on
that uh thank you for watching guys and
make sure that you tune in for the next
irregular episode of the MH
podcast Li what C